Remote Access Lab
This lab demonstrates how to configure and test remote access between different operating systems using two widely used tools:
•	Microsoft Remote Desktop (RDP) → Connect two Windows PCs
•	PuTTY with SSH → Connect a Windows PC to a Kali Linux machine
Objectives
•	Enable and configure Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) on Windows
•	Establish a secure remote session between two Windows PCs
•	Install and use PuTTY to initiate SSH connections
•	Connect from Windows to Kali Linux using SSH
Prerequisites
•	Two Windows PCs
•	One Kali Linux VM or physical machine
•	Administrator privileges on all systems
•	Network connectivity between devices (same LAN or configured routing)
•	PuTTY installed on the Windows machine (Download PuTTY https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html)

Part 1: Remote Desktop Between Two Windows PCs

Step 1: Enable Remote Desktop
        1.	On the target Windows PC (the one you’ll connect to):
            o	Go to Settings → System → Remote Desktop
            o	Toggle Enable Remote Desktop to On
            o	Allow connections from devices running any version of Remote Desktop
        2.	Note down the PC name or IP address.
Step 2: Connect Using Microsoft Remote Desktop
        1.	On the client Windows PC:
            o	Open Remote Desktop Connection.
            o	Enter the target PC’s name or IP address.
            o	Provide valid credentials (username + password).
        2.	You should now see and control the remote Windows desktop session.

Part 2: SSH Connection Between Windows and Kali Linux

Step 1: Configure SSH on Kali Linux
        1.	On Kali Linux, open a terminal and install OpenSSH server: 
        2.	sudo apt update
        3.	sudo apt install openssh-server -y
        4.	Start and enable the SSH service: 
        5.	sudo systemctl start ssh
        6.	sudo systemctl enable ssh
        7.	Verify SSH is running: 
        8.	sudo systemctl status ssh
        9.	Find Kali’s IP address: 
        10.	ip addr show

Step 2: Connect Using PuTTY on Windows
        1.	Launch PuTTY on the Windows PC.
        2.	Enter the IP address of the Kali Linux machine.
        3.	Set Port to 22 and Connection type to SSH.
        4.	Click Open.
        5.	Login with your Kali Linux username and password.

Verification
•	You should be able to: 
    o	Control the remote Windows PC via RDP.
    o	Access the Kali Linux terminal remotely via SSH.
